---
layout: archive
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
header:
  overlay_image: jenner_beach5.jpg
  
---
## PUBLICATIONS

***[Can Social Media Rhetoric Incite Hate Incidents? Evidence from Trump's "Chinese Virus" Tweets](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094119023000608)***

 <ins>Journal of Urban Economics, 2023</ins>. Corresponding Author, Joint with Andy Cao and Jason M. Lindo. 

> Abstract: We investigate whether Donald Trump's "Chinese Virus" tweets contributed to the rise of anti-Asian incidents. We find that the number of incidents spiked following Trump's initial “Chinese Virus” tweets and the subsequent dramatic rise in internet search activity for the phrase. Difference-in-differences and event-study analyses leveraging spatial variation indicate that this spike in anti-Asian incidents was significantly more pronounced in counties that supported Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election relative to those that supported Hillary Clinton. We estimate that anti-Asian incidents spiked by approximately 4200% in Trump-supported counties compared to an increase of approximately 200% in Clinton-supported counties.

***[Early Grade Retention Harms Adult Earnings](/files/pdf/JMP.pdf)***

 <ins> American Economic Journal: Applied Economics </ins> (Forthcoming)

> Abstract: This paper provides new causal evidence on the effects of grade retention on educational attainment, behavioral outcomes, and labor market performance by analyzing Texas's reading test-based retention policy. Using a fuzzy regression discontinuity design, I find that third-grade retention significantly reduces annual earnings at age 26 by $3,477 (19%). While temporarily improving test scores, retention increases absenteeism, violent behavior, and juvenile crime, and reduces the likelihood of high school graduation. Moreover, retained students exhibit higher community college enrollment but lower public university attendance, though neither estimate is statistically significant.

## HANDBOOK CHAPTER PUBLICATION

***Grade Retention*** 

 <ins> Handbook of Labor, Human Resources and Population Economics </ins>. Joint with Kendall J. Kennedy and Simon ter Meulen.

> Abstract: Grade retention is widely practiced in education systems worldwide, but the effects of grade retention often differ from those of typical educational attainment. This chapter discusses recent research on the causes and consequences of grade retention, covering the effects of grade retention on academic achievement, behavioral outcomes, and labor market outcomes. Furthermore, it also provides an overview of the estimation of the effects of grade retention and a discussion of how retention can affect other research on education and labor markets. Finally, it provides an overview of research on the incentive effects of grade retention policies on retained and non-retained students and makes suggestions for future work in this area.

## WORKING PAPERS

***[Do State-Funded Pre-K Programs Improve Long-Run Outcomes?](https://docs.iza.org/dp18790.pdf)*** (Joint with Maya Mikdash)

> Abstract: We study the long-term effects of access to state-funded early childhood education on educational attainment and labor market outcomes. To do so, we exploit quasi-random variation across districts and cohorts generated by the phased rollout of Texas's large-scale public Pre-K program. Using restricted-access administrative data, we find that access to state-funded Pre-K substantially increases enrollment, particularly in districts without alternative preschool options. Additional results show that in districts that provide Pre-K simultaneously for three- and four-year-olds, access to Pre-K increases earnings at age 27 and high-school graduation by about 4 percent, with no effect on college enrollment. In contrast, access to Pre-K has no effects on labor market and educational outcomes in districts that primarily serve four-year-olds only. We provide suggestive evidence that the effectiveness of state-funded Pre-K depends on program funding rather than access alone.


***Does Piston-Engine Aircraft Harm Children’s Human Capital Development?*** (Joint with Thao Duong)

> Abstract: This paper provides the first causal evidence on the effects of Piston-Engine Aircraft (PEA) on short- and long-run educational and labor market outcomes. We implement a triple-differences strategy that leverages a sharp increase in PEA activity in Texas after 2007, cross-school variation in distance to airports, and cross-airport variation in the magnitude of the post-2007 increase in PEA operations. We find that increased PEA activity reduces third-grade reading scores by 0.17 standard deviations, with smaller and statistically insignificant effects on math scores. We also find evidence of effects on educational progression: high school graduation falls by 4.5 percentage points, public university enrollment falls by 3.9 percentage points, and on-time college enrollment falls by 4.6 percentage points. In contrast, we find little evidence of adverse effects on behavioral outcomes, attendance, degree completion, or early-career earnings. The effects are largest for schools closest to airports and attenuate with distance, consistent with a localized pollution-exposure mechanism.



## WORK IN PROGRESS



Motivation or Stigma? Evaluating the Incentive Effects of Grade Retention Policy (Joint with Kendall J. Kennedy and Simon ter Meulen)

The Impacts of Grade Retention Policy: Evidence on Peer Composition, Tracking, and Educator Preferences (Joint with Kendall J. Kennedy, Simon ter Meulen, and Umut Özek)

The Hidden Costs of Low-Level Lead Exposure: Evidence on Infant Health (Joint with Tengda Gong)

The Impacts of Light and Noise Exposure on Human Capital Formation: Evidence from Wind Farm Operation (Joint with Thao Duong)








